Class name	Class description	Class kind
Archer	"Like Paladins, the Archer is a hybrid of the Knight and Sorcerer classes.  Archers may learn to use all weapons except the mace, (specializing in the bow, of course) but they may never learn the shield or plate armor skills.  They are compensated with the ability to learn magic from the elemental schools.  The greater realms of Light and Dark can be learned on their second promotions, but they will never be very skilled in them.  "	Archer
Warrior Mage	"Warrior Mage is the first Archer promotion.  Warrior Mages gain an extra hit point and spell point per level, and (more importantly) may achieve expert ranking in their magical skills."	Archer
Battle Mage	Battle Mage	Archer
Battle Mage 3	Battle Mage 3	Archer
Master Archer	"Master Archer is the second and last Archer promotion for Archers following the path of Light.  Master Archers may grandmaster in Chain armor, Bow, and Perception, and enjoy the benefit of an extra hit point and spell point per level.  Master Archers also gain the ability to learn spells from the realm of Light magic."	Archer
Master Archer 3	Master Archer 3	Archer
Sniper	"Sniper is the second and last Archer promotion for Archers following the path of Darkness.  Snipers may grandmaster in Chain armor, Bow, and Perception, and enjoy the benefit of an extra hit point and spell point per level.  Snipers also gain the ability to learn spells from the realm of Dark magic."	Archer
Sniper 3	Sniper 3	Archer
Cleric	"Clerics are adventuring, spell casting holy men. Before they leave the sanctity of their orders, clerics learn basic fighting skills and a smattering of useful healing spells. The cleric class is the one best at casting spirit, body and mind magic; and is the only class capable of using the extremely powerful light magic. They are fair fighters, but are limited to the lighter armors and can only melee with blunt weapons."	Cler
Priest	"Priest is the first Cleric Promotion.  They enjoy the benefit of an extra hit point and spell point per level, and can be promoted to Priest of the Light or Priest of the Dark to gain another hit point and spell point per level."	Cler
Acolyte of the Light	Acolyte of the Light	Cler
Cleric of the Light	Cleric of the Light	Cler
Acolyte of the Dark	Acolyte of the Dark	Cler
Cleric of the Dark	Cleric of the Dark	Cler
High Priest	High Priest is the second and last Cleric promotion. High Priest can learn and master in spells from the realm of both Dark and Lighr. High Priest gain an extra hit point and spell point per level, and may grandmaster in all of their spell skills and the Merchant skill.	Cler
High Priest 3	Hight Priest 3	Cler
Priest of the Light	"When clerics are promoted to Priest of the Sun status, their heightened piety allows them to wield the most powerful magics of spirit, body, mind, and light."	Cler
Priest of the Light 3	Priest of the Light 3	Cler
Priest of the Dark	"Priest of the Dark is the second and last Cleric promotion for Clerics following the path of Darkness.  Priests of the Dark can learn and grandmaster in spells from the realm of Dark. Priests of the Dark gain an extra hit point and spell point per level, and may grandmaster in all of their spell skills and the Merchant skill."	Cler
Priest of the Dark 3	Priest of the Dark 3	Cler
Deerslayer	"Dark Elves are Elves who have chosen to follow the Path of Dark. All Dark Elves have special magical abilities exclusive to their race. Adventuring Dark Elven Deerslayers are capable fighters, particularly with the bow, and users of elemental magics. They also excel at the disarm traps and merchant skills."	DElf
Pioneer	"Pioneer is the first Deerslayer promotion."	DElf
Pathfinder	"Dark Elven Pioneers who pass certain tests become members of the races higher order, achieving the rank of Pathfinder. Pathfinders can become warrior mages of extreme power."	DElf
Pathfinder 3	Pathfinder 3	DElf
Light Pathfinder	Light Pathfinder	DElf
Light Pathfinder 3	Light Pathfinder 3	DElf
Dark Pathfinder	Dark Pathfinder	DElf
Dark Pathfinder 3	Dark Pathfinder 3	DElf
Dragon	"The noble race of Dragons rarely involve themselves in the affairs of the ""civilized"" races, but when they do, they make powerful adversaries. Their monstrous form gives them natural armor, weapons and a breath attack. "	Dragon
Flight Leader	"Flight Leader is the first Dragon promotion."	Dragon
Great Wyrm	Dragons who have survived to become Great Wyrms are the largest and wisest of their kind. Legend tells of entire armies that have fallen before the might of just one Great Wyrm.	Dragon
Great Wyrm 3	Great Wyrm 3	Dragon
Light Dragon	Light Dragon	Dragon
Light Dragon 3	Light Dragon 3	Dragon
Dark Dragon	Dark Dragon	Dragon
Dark Dragon 3	Dark Dragon 3	Dragon
Druid	"Druids are a hybrid of the Sorcerer and Cleric classes.  They make poor fighters (better only than the lowly Sorcerer) and have relatively few hit points.  On the plus side, Druids can use both Sorcerer and Clerical magic.  Druids may not learn Light and Dark magic, and they can only use the staff, dagger, mace, and bow as weapons while wearing only leather and shield as armor.  Most secondary skills are open to the Druid.    "	Druid
Great Druid	"Great Druids are the first Druid promotion.  Great Druids enjoy the benefit of an extra hit point and spell point per level, and may be promoted to Arch Druid or Warlock, gaining another hit point and spell point per level.  This promotion permits Druids to learn their spell skills to Master rank."	Druid
Master Druid	Master Druid	Druid
Master Druid 3	Master Druid 3	Druid
Arch Druid	"Arch Druids are the second and last Druid promotion for Druids following the path of Light.  Arch Druids get another hit point and spell point per level, and may grandmaster in the Alchemy and Meditation skills. "	Druid
Arch Druid 3	Arch Druid 3	Druid
Warlock	"Warlocks are the second and last Druid promotion for Druids following the path of Dark.  Warlocks get another hit point and spell point per level, and may grandmaster in the Alchemy and Meditation skills. "	Druid
Warlock 3	Warlock 3	Druid
Knight	"Knights are human men and women of arms. They specialize in martial skills, and can become proficient in all weapons and armor. They are only second to the troll class in terms of physical toughness. On the other hand, knights are incapable of learning any of the magical arts."	Knight
Cavalier	"The Cavalier class is the first promotion of the Knight.  Cavaliers may use any type of weapon or armor, but they may not learn spells.  Cavaliers enjoy the benefit of an extra two hit points per level, and can be promoted once more to either Champion or Black Knight status with another two hit point per level gain.  "	Knight
Champion	"Champions are knights who have gained promotion through experience and the completion of knightly quests. Champions are able to grandmaster in plate, shield, and many weapon and other martial skills."	Knight
Champion 3	Champion 3	Knight
Templar	"The Templar class is the second and last promotion of knights who follow the path of Light.  Templars may use any type of weapon or armor, but they may not learn spells.  Champions enjoy the benefit of an extra four hit points per level.  Champions can grandmaster in the Plate, Shield, Sword, and Spear skills."	Knight
Templar 3	Templar 3	Knight
Black Knight	"The Black Knight is the second and last promotion of Knights who follow the path of Darkness.  Black Knights may use any type of weapon or armor, but they may not learn spells.  Black knights enjoy the benefit of an extra four hit points per level.  Black Knights may grandmaster in the Plate, Shield Sword, and Spear skills."	Knight
Black Knight 3	Black Knight 3	Knight
Minotaur	"The race of Minotaurs has descended from creatures created as magically attuned guardians. While primarily skilled in arts of war, Minotaurs are also able to use body, spirit and mind magic. They can use all weapons, but specialize in the axe and can wear all types of armor, though they cannot carry shields or wear helmets."	Min
Minotaur Headsman	"Minotaur Headsman is the first Minotaur promotion."	Min
Minotaur Lord	"Only those Minotaurs who have exhibited extreme valor are promoted to the rank of Minotaur Lord. At this level, Minotaurs can gain grandmastery in the axe and perception skills."	Min
Minotaur Lord 3	Minotaur Lord 3	Min
Light Minotaur	Light Minotaur	Min
Light Minotaur 3	Light Minotaur 3	Min
Dark Minotaur	Dark Minotaur	Min
Dark Minotaur 3	Dark Minotaur 3	Min
Monk	"Monks concentrate on unarmed combat.  Monks are second only to Knights in combat, and they have access to spells from the Clerical schools (Spirit, Mind, and Body) of magic when they are promoted to Initiate."	Monk
Initiate Monk	"Initiate Monk is the first promotion of the Monk class.  Initiates gain an additional hit point and spell point per level, as well as the ability to cast spells from the Clerical schools of magic."	Monk
Monk 2	Monk 2	Monk
Monk 3	Monk 3	Monk
Master Monk	"Master Monk is the final promotion for Monks following the path of Light. Monks gain 2 more hit points per level and may become experts in their magical skills.  Monks may grandmaster in Dodge, Unarmed combat, Staff, Learning, and Body Building."	Monk
Master Monk 3	Master 3	Monk
Ninja	"Ninja is the final promotion for Monks following the path of Darkness. Ninjas gain 2 more hit points per level may grandmaster in Dodge, Unarmed combat, Staff, Learning, and Body Building."	Monk
Ninja 3	Ninja 3	Monk
Paladin	"A cross between Knight and Cleric, Paladins perform both roles well, but not as well as the more focused classes they borrow from.  Like Knights, Paladins can learn to use any type of weapon or armor, although they don’t have as many choices to begin with.  Paladins also begin with the Spirit realm of magic, and can also learn to use the Clerical Mind and Body realms.  Their skill in the greater realms of Light and Dark is sharply limited, and they may never learn any of the Elemental realms."	Pal
Crusader	"Crusader is the first Paladin promotion.  Crusaders can learn to use any type of weapon or armor, and they can learn the Clerical magics of Spirit, Mind, and Body.  Crusaders enjoy the benefit of an extra hit point and spell point per level, and can be promoted to Heroes or Villains, gaining an additional hit point and spell point per level."	Pal
Justiciar	Justiciar	Pal
Paladin 3	Paladin 3	Pal
Hero	"Hero is the second and last Paladin promotion for Paladins following the path of Light.  Hero gain an extra hit point and spell point per level. Heroes may grandmaster in the Repair, Mace, and Shield skills.  Heroes also gain the ability to learn spells from the realm of Light magic."	Pal
Hero 3	Hero 3	Pal
Villain	"Villain is the second and last Paladin promotion for Paladins following the path of Darkness.  Villains gain an extra hit point and spell point per level. Villains may grandmaster in the Repair, Mace, and Shield skills.  Villains also gain the ability to learn spells from the realm of Light magic."	Pal
Villain 3	Villain 3	Pal
Ranger	"Rangers are a cross between Knights and Druids.  Of all the classes, Rangers may learn the broadest range of skills, but can master few of them.  Rangers may eventually learn both the Elemental and Clerical realms of magic, leaving only the greater realms of Light and Dark out of their reach.  Rangers may also learn to use most weapons, armor, and secondary skills, with only Plate and Mace beyond their reach."	Rang
Hunter	"The Hunter is the first class promotion for the Ranger.  Hunters gain 2 extra spell points and 1 extra hit point per level, and may achieve expert ranking in all of their spell skills.  They also gain access to all of their spell skills at this point."	Rang
Ranger 2	Ranger 2	Rang
Ranger 3	Ranger 3	Rang
Ranger Lord	"Ranger Lord is the final promotion available to Rangers following the path of Light.  Ranger Lords gain an extra hit point and spell point per level, and may achieve expert ranking in their spell skills.  Ranger Lords may grandmaster in Axe and Identify Monster."	Rang
Ranger Lord 3	Ranger Lord 3	Rang
Bounty Hunter	"Bounty Hunter is the final promotion available to Rangers following the path of Darkness.  Bounty Hunters gain an extra hit point and spell point per level, and may achieve expert ranking in their spell skills.  Bounty Hunters may grandmaster in Axe and Identify Monster."	Rang
Bounty Hunter 3	Bounty Hunter 3	Rang
Thief	"The Thief class concentrates less on fighting and more on utility skills, such as disarming traps and stealing.  Although they aren't as good with weapons and armor as Knights, Thieves are still better fighters than the semi and full spell using classes.  Thieves may eventually use spells from the Elemental schools, but they will never be very good at them."	Thief
Rogue	The Rogue class is the first promotion from Thief.  Rogues get an additional 2 hit points per level.  They also gain the ability to cast spells and one spell point per level to do it with.	Thief
Robber	Robber	Thief
Robber 3	Robber 3	Thief
Spy	"The Spy class is the final promotion for thieves following the path of Light.  Spies gain two more hit points per level and can grandmaster in Leather, Dagger, Disarm Traps, and Steal."	Thief
Spy 3	Spy 3	Thief
Assassin	"The Assassin class is the final promotion for thieves following the path of Darkness.  Assassins gain two more hit points per level and can grandmaster in Leather, Dagger, Disarm Traps, and Steal."	Thief
Assassin 3	Assassin 3	Thief
Barbarian	"Barbarians are the most physically tough of all the classes--they start with and gain the most hit points per level. Though they can only gain grandmastery of blunt weapons, they can use all weapons. They are, however, limited to the lighter armors and cannot use magic."	Barb
Berserker	"Berserkers are the most physically tough of all the classes--not only do they start with and gain the most hit points per level, they are also the best at the regeneration skill. Though they can only gain grandmastery of blunt weapons, they can use all weapons. They are, however limited to the lighter armors (though they can grandmaster in leather), and cannot use magic."	Barb
Warmonger	"Those Berserkers that survive through many battles can be promoted to the rank of Warmonger. Now allowed to reach grandmaster rank in regeneration and other martial skills, the Warmonger can train to change from being a formidable opponent into something truly mighty."	Barb
Barbarian 3	Barbarian 3	Barb
Light Barbarian	Light Barbarian	Barb
Light Barbarian 3	Light Barbarian 3	Barb
Dark Barbarian	Dark Barbarian	Barb
Dark Barbarian 3	Dark Barbarian 3	Barb
Vampire	"Few choose to become vampires, but those that do soon revel in the new powers granted them by their new form. In addition to having these powers, vampires can also become powerful casters of body, mind and spirit magic; and can gain great skill with bladed weapons."	Vamp
Elder Vampire	"Elder Vampire is the first Vampire promotion."	Vamp
Nosferatu	"Nosferatu, the higher level vampires, gain the strength to cast all but the highest levels of mind, spirit and body magic. With practice, Nosferatu can learn to transform into mist. They can also grandmaster in the dagger skill. "	Vamp
Nosferatu 3	Nosferatu 3	Vamp
Light Nosferatu	Light Nosferatu	Vamp
Light Nosferatu 3	Light Nosferatu 3	Vamp
Dark Nosferatu	Dark Nosferatu	Vamp
Dark Nosferatu 3	Dark Nosferatu 3	Vamp
Sorcerer	"Students of the realm of Elemental magic, Sorcerers concentrate on offensive and utilitarian magic.  Sorcerers are downright rotten fighters barely able to learn to use the dagger, the staff, and the bow effectively.  They are allowed to use only leather armor, cannot use shield, and have the lowest hit points of all the classes.  With that aside, Sorcerers can wield mighty offensive spells and have access to the Mirrored Path of the Light and the Dark, from which come the best spells in the lands.  "	Wiz
Wizard	"Wizards are the first Sorcerer promotion.  Wizards enjoy the benefit of an extra hit point and extra spell point per level, and they can be promoted to Arch Mage or Lich, gaining another hit point and spell point per level."	Wiz
Apprentice Mage	Apprentice Mage	Wiz
Mage	Mage	Wiz
Dark Adept	Dark Adept	Wiz
Necromancer	"Necromancers are magicians who have succumbed to the temptations of the Dark Path. They are the class best at casting the elemental magics of earth, water, air, and fire; and are the only class able to wield the highly powerful dark magic. They are also the least physically powerful class, and can use the smallest selection of weapons and armor."	Wiz
Master Wizard	Master Wizard is the second and last Sorcerer promotion. Upon their promotions, Master Wizards gain two additional spell points per level, and access to the realm of Light and Dark magic. Arch Mages can grandmaster in all their spell skills, plus Identify Monster and Identify Item."	Wiz
Master Wizard 3	Master Wizard 3	Wiz
Arch Mage	"Arch Mages is the second and last Sorcerer promotion for Sorcerers following the path of Light.  Upon their promotions, Arch Mages gain two additional spell points per level, and access to the realm of Light magic.  Arch Mages can grandmaster in all their spell skills, plus Identify Monster and Identify Item."	Wiz
Arch Mage 3	Arch Mage 3	Wiz
Master Necromancer	"Master Necromancers is the second and last Sorcerer promotion for Sorcerers following the path of Dark.  Upon their promotions, Master Necromancers gain two additional spell points per level, and access to the realm of Dark magic.  Master Necromancers can grandmaster in all their spell skills, plus Identify Monster and Identify Item."	Wiz
Master Necromancer 3	Master Necromancer 3	Wiz
Peasant	"In him the glories of an ancient line
Of sober kings, who ruled by right divine,
Were centred; and to him with loyal awe
The people looked for leadership and law."	Peas
n/u	"Peasant uneven step placeholder."	Peas
